

--- PAGE 1 ---
sustainability
Article
Corporate Political Ties and Firm Value:
Comparative Analysis in the Korean Market
Chune Young Chung 1,*, Jung Hoon Byun 1 and Jason Young 2
1 School of Business Administration, College of Business and Economics, Chung-Ang University,
Seoul 06974, Korea; jhbyun@hanmail.net
2 College of Business, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164, USA; jyoung@wsu.edu
* Correspondence: bizﬁnance@cau.ac.kr; Tel.: +82-2-820-5544
Received: 20 November 2018; Accepted: 18 December 2018; Published: 10 January 2019
/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001
/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046
Abstract: Although prior studies have viewed corporate political ties as unethical, this study
investigates whether changes in the political environment can signiﬁcantly affect the net value
of ﬁrms over time in emerging and transitioning economies. Analysis of a panel of South Korean
listed ﬁrms in the Gyeongsang and Jeolla provinces from 1998 to 2013 reveals that political network
ties to the regime currently in power provide signiﬁcantly more positive beneﬁts to politically
connected ﬁrms than to non-connected ﬁrms. However, political network ties to the rival of the
regime in power have signiﬁcantly more negative effects on politically connected ﬁrms than on
non-connected ﬁrms. More importantly, unexpected political regime changes strongly affect the
shift from positive to negative effects on ﬁrm value over time, and political network ties continue
to signiﬁcantly and positively affect ﬁrm value over time during regime changes after political and
economic liberalization in South Korea. These results line up with various robustness tests.
Keywords: business ethics; political connection; ﬁrm value; regionalism; contingency perspective
1. Introduction
Prior researchers have generated a rich set of empirical results demonstrating the positive beneﬁts
of political connections for ﬁrm value in emerging and transitioning economies. Many studies have
found that political connections can increase ﬁrm value through ofﬁcial government support such as
favorable regulatory conditions, the cut-rate credit, import licenses, ﬁnancial bailouts, and preferential
access to debt ﬁnancing. All of these factors help ﬁrms secure positional advantages over their
competitors and helping to build strong market power even if overall productivity is lower [ 1–4].
Among these studies showing the beneﬁts of political connections, some have focused on external
factors, considering higher corruption, weaker institutional constraints, and ineffective legal protection
as the sources of these beneﬁts, whereas others have focused on the characteristics of ﬁrms such
as poor governance structures, low research and development (R&D) intensities, and ﬁrm size.
However, studies have also found growing evidence of a negative effect of political connections
on ﬁrm value. As Shleifer and Vishny [ 5,6] note, it cannot be assumed that a politician is always
benevolent. Politicians’ machinations to win elections or achieve other personal objectives may be
harmful to ﬁrms in terms of weaker managerial practices, distortions of incentives, misallocations
of investments, more rent-seeking behavior, and, ﬁnally, underperformance on an ex-ante basis.
Faccio [3] explains that, although these connections provide considerable beneﬁts, because of the
overall inefﬁcient use of resources, ﬁrms often underperform in the long term. Other studies also
support these arguments [7–10]. Given the conﬂicting empirical results regarding the relationship
between political connections and ﬁrm value, it is not surprising that many cross-disciplinary studies
have been conducted in the social sciences. Theory and research have shown that the value of political
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327; doi:10.3390/su11020327 www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability

--- PAGE 2 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 2 of 25
connections depends on the environmental context in emerging and transitioning economies. In their
seminal work, Shleifer and Vishny [5,11] suggest that the beneﬁts of political capital enhance ﬁrm value
only when their marginal beneﬁts outweigh their marginal costs, arguing that connections are a type
of game between the public, the political actors, and the economic actors, which is always controlled
by incomplete contracts. In other words, although a rational economic actor can obtain beneﬁts from
political capital by appointing politically connected directors, given their knowledge and experience
with government procedures [ 12], their tacit and timely information regarding industrial policy
changes [13] or even their efforts to indirectly lead inﬂuential institutions to change economic policies
to his ﬁrm’s advantage [14], he considers all the corresponding economic costs (e.g., lobbying, bribery,
contribution to political campaigns, and other forms of direct and indirect payments to politicians) [3]
and then decides whether he should form political ties [15]. Similarly, Yeh, Shu, and Chiu [16] ﬁnd
empirical evidence that Taiwanese ﬁrms with poor governance structures are more likely to engage
political connections to increase ﬁrm value due to high marginal beneﬁts and low marginal costs.
However, there are several reasons why it may not be as easy to detect or explain the relationship
between political connections and ﬁrm value for emerging and transitioning economies.
First, Hillman, Zardkoohi, and Bierman [ 17] distinguish “relational approaches” from
“general transactional approaches,” arguing that many ﬁrms pursue political network ties over a
long time horizon rather than issue by issue. Peng and Luo [ 18] also emphasize that the overall
objective of political connections is to produce governmental policy outcomes that beneﬁt the ﬁrm’s
continued survival and positive performance. The primary goals of political actors are re-election [19],
political survival [20], and political persistence [21] from a long-term perspective. A series of anecdotes
proposed by Leuz and Oberholzer-Gee [22] describe Indonesian ﬁrms who were treated preferentially
in ﬁnancial allocations because of their close ties with regimes. However, when the patron of these
ﬁrms unexpectedly fell from power, they faced sudden difﬁculties, and, thus, underperformed
under the new regime. Goldman, Rocholl, and So [ 23,24] show empirical evidence that political
connections of Standard and Poor’s (S&P) 500 ﬁrms in the United States were responsive to the
2000 presidential election and ﬁnd that ﬁrms that were well connected to the Democratic Party
surprisingly experienced decreases in ﬁrm value. Thus, each of these studies stresses that the mutual
connections [3], gift exchanges [25], and embeddedness [26] of political and economic actors are not
single episodes but, rather, have more relevance to changes in the structure and processes of the
relations over time [17].
More importantly, studies point out that changes in political and economic circumstances are not
always contemporaneous events [27–29] and that the extent of regime change and the processes of
economic privatization or liberalization differ across emerging and transitioning economies [1,4,30].
Prominently, Walder [29] focuses on categorizing four types of transitional economies according
to their political and economic environments. Some countries (e.g., the Czech Republic, Poland,
Russia, and Ukraine) have experienced extensive regime change including the collapse of hierarchies
whereas others (e.g., China, Vietnam, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan) have had one party remaining in
power. Some countries (e.g., China, Hungary, Poland, Tajikistan, and Vietnam) have well-regulated
monitoring systems to control asset appropriation by powerful elites. Others (e.g., Russia, Ukraine,
and Uzbekistan) have poorly regulated privatization programs. Furthermore, Walder [29] believes
that the great cross-national heterogeneity in the pace of political and economic reforms can create
both opportunities and regulatory constraints, which, in turn, lead to strikingly different reactions
and behaviors of political and economic actors during transitional periods. Other authors agree that
researchers must examine the target countries not with “a standard cookbook approach” but rather by
considering their distinctive historical paths during political-economic transitions [31–34].
Overall, many scholars have theoretically suggested that, because countries vary widely in terms
of the extent, order, speed, and phase of political and economic reform over time, using “a contingency
perspective” as a tool for the analysis of political capital is suitable [ 15,18,26,35]. Burt [ 15] studies
170 managers at one of the largest electronics ﬁrms in the United States and the senior investment

--- PAGE 3 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 3 of 25
banking ofﬁcers at a large American ﬁnancial organization and demonstrates that the value of
socio-political capital to these groups is contingent on their network, background, and performance.
Peng and Luo [18] show that, in China, the effect of a manager’s social ties, contacts, and networks
varies across ﬁrms with different ownership types, business sectors, sizes, and industry growth rates.
In a recent study, Zhu and Chung [13] show that the positive effects of social connections between
politicians and ﬁrms on market entry are contingent on ﬁrms’ external competitive environments,
the organization of the government, and the internal resource proﬁle of each ﬁrm as measured by data
from the 250 largest Taiwanese business groups from 1998 to 2004. As Peng and Luo [ 18] mention,
understanding the notion of the contingent value of political capital provides a frame for a speciﬁc
prediction to capture the interplay between political and economic actors, and, thus, to eventually
evaluate the impact of political connections on ﬁrm value in emerging and transitioning economies.
To date, although much has been written, no deﬁnitive empirical study exists on the aspects of
the dynamic between political connections and ﬁrm value in emerging and transitioning economies.
The most closely related studies are those by Do et al. [36] and Siegel [26]. Do et al. [36] use a regression
discontinuity design for 35 gubernatorial elections from 1999 to 2010 in the United States to demonstrate
that social network-based political connections provide positive and signiﬁcant cumulative returns to
ﬁrm value. They use a novel method to identify political connections based on networks of university
classmates among corporate directors and politicians and expertly ﬁnd that rival business groups have
opposite effects on overall ﬁrm value over time. Again, this study does not consider the dynamics of
ﬁrm value and does not examine the possibility that political connections can also lead to negative
consequences as a punishment following regime change. Using data on 665 South Korean ﬁrms from
1987 to 2003, Siegel [26] performs the only comparative study in which sociopolitical network ties to the
regime in power are positively correlated with the rate of cross-border strategic alliances while ties to
the opposing regime are negatively correlated with that rate. From a contingency perspective, his novel
study examines how an unexpected event regarding the political regime can quickly change a political
liability (asset) into an asset (liability) in the long term. However, he only focuses on cross-border
strategic alliances as a tool for assessing political connections rather than on ﬁrm value.
In addition, corporate political ties (activities) and their strategies are more sensitive to ethical
issues than their purely market-driven issues [37]. First, from the perspective of neoclassical economics,
organizations in the public sector are a counterforce to ﬁrm actors and both parties are self-interested
to the same extent. This counterforce is undermined if ﬁrms manage to obtain a substantial inﬂuence
in the political system. Hence, the balance of the whole economic system will be in jeopardy in the
long term. The studies on regulatory capture [38,39], in its critique on neoclassical views on regulators,
has argued the danger of regulation coming under the inﬂuence of various corporate interests. Second,
corporate political ties (activities) have ethical implications, which stem from the argument that the
discourse of strategy itself is highly ideological and promoting in latent form, has ethically problematic
inclinations toward managerial hegemony, aggressive competition, psychological egoism, and the
viewing of economic capital as the highest form of capital [37]. All of these are presented in the guise
of rationality and foresight in decision-making [ 40,41]. It is one thing to promote such ideology in
the economic marketplace, but when done so in the public arena, it becomes paramount to consider
societal implications [37].
However, the ethical aspects of corporate political ties in the Korean market have so far received
little attention. In contrast with the extravagant claims about the economic beneﬁts of political ties
for ﬁrms, we have not fully understood their dark side. The question is, are corporate political
ties ethically acceptable? This depends on the nature of the corporate political relationship and the
context in which it occurs. While having family and helper ties are generally perceived in Korea
as a good practice that is completely moral or even desirable, political ties in a corporate setting
are widely regarded as a bad practice or a grey area that is inevitably associated with favoritism,
nepotism, unfair competition, and fraud. In the majority of corporate scandals related to political ties,
swindlers deliberately chose people whom they had close business relationships with relatives, friends,

--- PAGE 4 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 4 of 25
or classmates as unsuspecting easy targets. They betrayed trust for proﬁt. Ironically, when the victims
discovered the fraud, most of them tried to recruit newer victims in the same fashion to recoup their
losses. Such scandals have exposed the pernicious side of corporate political ties.
There is no doubt that there are advantages of corporate political ties in the Korean market.
These advantages may bring cost savings, vital resources, and special treatment to an organization that
employs individuals who have political connections. However, ﬁrms often achieve these beneﬁts at the
expense of other individuals or ﬁrms since corporate political ties create signiﬁcant disadvantages for
parties outside the network, which stiﬂes competition to the detriment of society. In this way, such ties
sacriﬁce the greater social good for personal gain. A simple acid test to judge the ethics of corporate
political ties is to identify whether there are any victims because of such a deal. These victims may
be known, such as competitors of the ﬁrm or customers. They may even be unknown in some cases.
However, the truth remains that such corporate political ties produce gains for individuals or ﬁrms but
cause wider social loss. They may be considered benign from the ethics point of view only if there is no
third party, either known or unknown, that is adversely affected because of this action. Unfortunately,
the vast majority of corporate political ties would fail this test.
Given the ethical aspects of corporate social ties, to investigate the changes in the value of political
connections over time after a regime change from a contingency perspective, this study examines
the effect of political capital between businesses and the government on ﬁrm value in South Korea
from 1998 to 2013. South Korea is ideal for exploring dynamic changes in ﬁrm value for several
reasons. First, South Korea is representative of many emerging economies and experienced a rapid
transformation of its political and economic environment toward liberalization from 1960 to 1990.
This remarkable turnaround has inevitably generated a unique relationship-based society in which
in-group favoritism reinforces the formation of reciprocal social networks and out-group exclusionism
wields strong inﬂuence over social cleavage. This low interpersonal trust-based society provides
an optimal environment for observing dramatic changes over time. Second, the study particularly
analyzes panel data on ﬁrms listed on the Korea Stock Exchange that are located in Southeast
(Gyeongsang province) and Southwest Korea (Jeolla province). These regions have had a longstanding
rivalry since 1961, and intense regional competition (even within subregions) over political and
economic resources has prevailed. This dataset is appropriate for identifying the conditions under
which political capital has a positive or negative effect and the change in this effect over time within
the political and economic environmental context. Third, and more importantly, the conﬂict between
these two regions has strongly inﬂuenced the attitudes of political and economic actors in these
regions. These actors have evolved from only maintaining the status quo to constructing reinforced
regimes or establishing solid government–business relationships as well as from passive acceptance of
government policies to actively coping with discriminatory treatment and punishment and greater
participation in forming political connections. Thus, both sides aggressively struggle to maintain or
change the incumbent regime. This series of behavioral changes can help investigate the impact of
political connections on ﬁrm value in the context of regime changes over time.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 brieﬂy discusses the related literature.
Section 3 describes South Korea’s historical background with a particular focus on regionalism.
Section 4 develops testable hypotheses. Section 5 describes the research design including the data,
variables, and empirical methods. Section 6 presents the empirical ﬁndings and reports robustness
tests and Section 7 concludes.
2. Literature Review
Previous empirical studies have found that the nexus between ﬁrms and a political connection is
mostly based on corporate governance. Therefore, a relational governance perspective highlights the
importance of network activities in improving overall ﬁrm performance. However, empirical results
on the environmental context are somewhat mixed. Some researchers have found a positive association
between political connection and ﬁrm value. Agrawal and Knoeber [ 12] use a sample of Forbes

--- PAGE 5 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 5 of 25
800 ﬁrms between 1987 and 1990 in the United States to show that politically experienced external
directors on corporate boards play a signiﬁcant role. They can deter the agency problem, provide crucial
information regarding the steps and processes of government procedures, provide consultation for
formulating political corporate strategies, and, eventually, increase overall ﬁrm performance. Hu and
Leung [42], using data on China’s listed state-owned enterprises (SOEs) between 2001 and 2005,
also ﬁnd that poorly performing ﬁrms have a strong tendency to replace their chairmen or CEOs with
politically connected top executives from the government, who serve in disciplinary or monitoring
functions to improve overall ﬁrm performance. However, other authors document that the political
connections can have a negative effect. Fan, Wong and Zhang [ 9] report that, in China, politically
connected CEOs and directors have a negative effect on the three-year post-initial public offering (IPO)
stock returns of 617 A-share listed companies on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen
Stock Exchange between 1993 and 2000. Chang and Wong [ 43] also empirically ﬁnd that political
connectedness often has a negative effect on a ﬁrm’s decision-making in China. Thus, it is more likely
to have a harmful effect on overall ﬁrm performance. Similarly, Liu, Luo, and Xu [44] conﬁrm that, for a
sample of A-share listed ﬁrms in China from 1994 to 2010, politically connected ﬁrms tend to overinvest
in the establishment of political connections but then reduce their investments to the level of their
peers, and that overinvestment often has a negative effect on ﬁrm performance. As the relationships
between states and ﬁrms are mostly heterogeneous both across and within countries in terms of the
structure and quality of corporate governance, the degree of government intervention, and the extent
of economic reform [45], these combined factors can strongly increase or decrease overall ﬁrm value.
For example, using 71,069 individual bank loan contracts of listed ﬁrms in Taiwan from 1997 to 2009,
Shen, Wang, and Lin [46] empirically show that ﬁrms with weak corporate governance have a greater
tendency to seek political connections while ﬁrms with strong corporate governance perform fewer
activities related to political connections. Therefore, corporate governance and political connections
may be substitutes.
Another strand of the literature focuses on corruption. Essentially, Khwaja and Mian [2] consider
political rents in banking in Pakistan and empirically ﬁnd that political ﬁrms receive positive beneﬁts
related to the access of government bank loans through relationships between politicians and their
directors. They analyze loan-level information for more than 90,000 ﬁrms from 1996 to 2002. In addition,
Wong [47] shows that government-business collusion through shareholders or directors concurrently
holding seats on the Election Committee in Hong Kong yields positive beneﬁts to ﬁrm value,
as measured by the returns on equity and market-to-book ratios of ﬁrms listed on the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange from 2003 to 2008. Studies even investigate the relationship between transparency and
ﬁrm value. In the context of post-IPO ﬁrms in Singapore from 1998 to 2006, Ang et al. [48] ﬁnd that ties
between political (former or current ministers and senior civil servants) and economic actors (chairmen,
CEOs, and directors) have little effect on ﬁrm value in a low-corruption environment. However,
they signiﬁcantly beneﬁt ﬁrm value in speciﬁc industry areas that are strictly controlled and regulated
by the government. Similarly, Niessen and Ruenzi [49] investigate the introduction of new transparency
laws in Germany and ﬁnd that ﬁrms with political connections to the Bundestag, which is elected by
German citizens, tended to signiﬁcantly outperform unconnected ﬁrms on the stock market between
2006 and 2007. Hellman, Jones, and Kaufmann [ 7] introduce the theoretical concept of a “captured
economy,” which is related to corruption in a transition economy through which “public ofﬁcials and
politicians privately sell underprovided public goods and a range of rent-generating advantages to
individual ﬁrms.” They also contrast state capture (i.e., “ﬁrms shaping and affecting formulation of
the rules of the game through private payments to public ofﬁcials and politicians”) with inﬂuence
(i.e., the same activity but without recourse to payments) and administrative corruption (“petty forms
of bribery in connection with the implementation of laws, rules, and regulations”), and empirically
prove that political ties to public ofﬁcials and politicians can improve ﬁrm performance except in the
case of “administrative corruption.”

--- PAGE 6 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 6 of 25
Third, several authors explicitly show that, in the case of China, an emerging and transitioning
economy, the connections between or behaviors of political and economic actors can be changed to
adapt to changes in the political and economic environments. Haveman et al. [34] ﬁnd that, in China,
links between state bureaucrats and CEOs or all top ﬁrm executives are still beneﬁcial to overall
ﬁrm performance through preferential access to bank loans by analyzing data on all listed ﬁrms
from 1992 to 2007. Qin [50] also shows that ﬁrms’ direct or indirect connections to the State Council
and Central Committee of the Communist Party of China had increasingly positive effects on ﬁrm
performance from 1998 to 2007, using panel data for 86,827 manufacturing ﬁrms and 350 politicians.
However, Nee and Opper [51] ﬁnd that the effect of political connections was positively correlated
with ﬁrms’ competitive advantages before 2002 but that those beneﬁts no longer exist for economic
transactions after 2002 due to competitive market conditions. This result is based on a large-scale
national survey conducted by the World Bank in 2003, covering 2400 ﬁrms in 18 municipalities in
China. Sheng, Zhou, and Li [52] speciﬁcally distinguish business capital from political capital and show
that business network capital has more positive effects on ﬁrm performance than political network
capital, which relies on institutional and market environments in China. To summarize, considering the
shift from state socialism to market-based capitalism in China, political and economic actors must
also evolve their thoughts, behavior, and strategies to gain more beneﬁts as the market develops.
As market competition gradually replaces the state’s role of allocating and redistributing resources,
the power of political actors progressively diminishes. However, these actors can effectively develop
new sources of power such as the regulation of market entry and exit, control licenses, subsidies,
taxes and capitals, and the shaping of government policy [34]. Consequently, political capital remains
valuable with the development of new aspects of contingencies for both political and economic actors
as the market develops.
Fourth, several studies explicitly investigate crony capitalism. Johnson and Mitton [ 53] deﬁne
crony capitalism as the “capital controls that enable politicians to support the ﬁnancing of particular
ﬁrms.” Faccio [3] also explains that, “dominant political leaders use their power to the advantage
of their families and friends, who beneﬁt from government–created rents.” A primary aspect of
crony capitalism is a reciprocal “gift exchange” between governments and politically connected
ﬁrms [25]. Other scholars depict the “interdependence” between political and economic actors [54].
On the one hand, political actors can certainly provide special support to speciﬁc ﬁrms by reducing
regulatory requirements, awarding government contracts, or providing ﬁnancial bailouts since it is
assumed that an economic actor’s ultimate goal is to improve ﬁrm performance. On the other hand,
economic actors can consistently support speciﬁc political actors via campaign contributions, donations,
or other activities, as it is assumed that a political actor’s ultimate goal is to win an election. However,
empirical evidence presents conﬂicting results across countries. In analyzing the ﬁve election cycles
between 1983 and 1992 in the United States, Kroszner and Stratmann [19] conﬁrm that the link between
interest groups and Congress is a type of contract under which ﬁrms contribute to achieving the
goals of legislators so that the latter can build a system of political action committees that promote
repeated interactions, reputation building, and long-term relationships between legislators and ﬁrms.
Sapienza [55] also ﬁnds that, in Italy, politically connected ﬁrms are more likely to receive lower interest
rates from state-owned banks than from other privately owned banks. This result is signiﬁcantly
responsive to the electoral results of the party. Ferguson and Voth [56] speciﬁcally show that the effect
of political connections between the German industry and the Nazi party in Nazi Germany had a
positive association with stock returns for a sample of 789 ﬁrms listed on the Berlin Stock Exchange
from April 1932 to May 1933. Based on the top 2000 companies in Taiwan, Bunkanwanicha and
Wiwattanakantang [30] conclude that business tycoons often pursue public ofﬁce and that, when they
are elected, their ﬁrms outperform others in terms of ﬁrm value. Imai and Shelton [ 57] focus on
the 2008 presidential election in Taiwan, analyzing Taiwanese ﬁrms listed on the Taipei Political
Exchange from 18 December 2007 to 21 March 2008. They ﬁnd that the stock returns of Taiwanese
ﬁrms closely related to the mainland have a signiﬁcantly positive association with the electoral victory

--- PAGE 7 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 7 of 25
for KMT in the context of the unresolved issues between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China.
In recent research, Bandeira-de-Mello et al. [58] ﬁnd that political network ties between businesses and
politicians in Brazil can directly beneﬁt ﬁrm performance through mutual contributions between the
two parties by considering a sample of the major elections for president, governors, senators, federal
and state deputies, and multilevel listed ﬁrms from 2003 to 2006. On the contrary, some studies ﬁnd
different results. Bertrand et al. [ 8] showed that, in France, politically connected CEOs have a net
negative effect on the performance of publicly traded ﬁrms based on ﬁrm-level panel data set from
1987 to 2002. Hung, Wong, and Zhang [ 59] also demonstrate that ﬁrms’ strong political ties have
a negative and statistically signiﬁcant association with ﬁrm performance relative to non-politically
connected ﬁrms using a data set of Chinese SOEs listed on overseas and domestic stock exchanges in
1992. Extraordinarily, using anecdotal evidence in 2001, Jayachandran [60] demonstrates that politically
connected ﬁrms experience signiﬁcantly positive or negative changes in market value following an
unexpected political changeover between the Republican and Democratic parties in the United States.
This ﬁnding is called the “Jeffords effect.”
Lastly, some scholars examine the overall relationship between political capital and ﬁrm
performance, which they predict based on worldwide research using meta-analysis and systematic
review. Boubakri, Cosset, and Saffar [ 10] conﬁrm that political connectedness and ﬁrm value are
positively correlated for a unique data set of 234 politically connected ﬁrms from 12 developed and
11 developing countries based on an international event study over three years. Liedong [ 61] uses
a systematic review of 56 studies to show that corporate political activities can strongly beneﬁt ﬁrm
performance, depending on the institutional context across countries. In addition, Stam, Arzlanian,
and Elfring [62] provide evidence that the relationship between entrepreneurs’ personal networks and
the ﬁrm performance of small ﬁrms is positive and signiﬁcant based on a meta-analysis of 59 studies
across countries. However, as Faccio [3] shows, for a sample of 42 countries, including 19,884 ﬁrms
and 17,033 politicians, connected corporations do enjoy signiﬁcant beneﬁts, such as debt ﬁnancing,
lower taxation, and stronger market power, but they also face the possibility of poor performance due
to rent-seeking activities by politicians.
Overall, the net value of political capital is heterogeneous depending on a combination of
factors from the political and economic environments that affect both political and economic actors.
The results of most studies suggest that political capital is highly contingent on the extent of corruption,
the intensity of institutional constraints, legal protections, judicial independence, government
intervention, structure of corporate governance, ﬁrm-speciﬁc characteristics (R&D intensity, size,
and leverage), and more.
3. Historical Background
Western scholars describe East Asian capitalism as “network capitalism,” “relational capitalism,”
“Confucian capitalism,” and “crony capitalism,” and the notion of “Asian values” reﬂects a unique set
of institutions and political environment in terms of successful economic development in emerging
and transitioning economies [ 63–67]. Apparently, all the above concepts highlight the importance
of social network ties for corporate strategic activities, government policy decision processes,
and government–business relationships in East Asian countries, where generalized interpersonal
trust is relatively low [66]. Fukuyama [68] categorizes South Korea, China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong
as familistic, low-trust societies in which social trust is often restricted to kinship and gradually
diminishes outside of networks. Therefore, these societies tend to develop a “two-tier system of ethical
values” in which in-group favoritism is more prevalent than out-group favoritism.
Kim [ 66] mentions that Korean social networks are especially characterized by generalized
exchanges in which multiple actors take active parts in network formation and control exchanges in
which network members promote exchanges among the “information, institutional resources, rights,
or power they own or control.” The Korean social network yonjul, similar to guanxi, is the most
signiﬁcant factor determining the allocation of all kinds of resources in Korea. It is mostly comprised

--- PAGE 8 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 8 of 25
of kin ties, school relations, and regional ties. For example, in Korea, family members connected to
conglomerates called chaebols and small and medium sized companies inherit stocks, properties,
or even ﬁrms within these conglomerates. Siegel [ 26] empirically shows that the quality of high
school and university network ties between ﬁrms and the government has a signiﬁcantly positive
correlation with ﬁrms’ international alliances. Regionalism also normally prevails in presidential and
parliamentary elections since the conservative party has been ﬁrmly rooted in the southeast area of
Korea since 1960.
Scholars demonstrate that the characteristics of social networks in South Korea generally rely on
regionalism. Kim [66] deﬁnes regionalism as “a set of ideologies (or prejudices) and institutions that
encourages persons to favor others within their region above those outside.” Most of the social capital
in South Korea is exclusively distributed through regional networks. These networks affect personal
networks, the promotion of economic and political elites, inter-ﬁrm ties, and even recruitment in the
labor market.
Historically, Korea has two distinct rival regions: the Gyeongsang province (southeastern area)
and the Jeolla province (southwestern area). Kim [66] suggests two theories to explain the origin of
Korea’s regionalism: Theory H and Theory P . Theory H focuses on the aspects of “historically rooted
prejudice” from the Koryo dynasties (A.D. 918–A.D. 1392). Regionalism in South Korea can be traced
as far back as the Three Kingdoms period (18 B.C.–A.D. 668) when the Korean peninsula was split into
the rival kingdoms of Goguyeo (north area), Baekje (southwestern area), and Silla (southeastern area).
After a long war, Silla (i.e., the Gyeongsang province) conquered the other two rival kingdoms, and they
eventually uniﬁed in A.D. 676 [69]. The Koryo dynasty began, and its founder, Wang Geon, openly
discriminated against anyone from the southwestern area (i.e., the Jeolla province). As Kim [66] notes,
Wang Geon’s Ten Commandments (A.D. 943) is the earliest historical document that explains Korean
regionalism based on Theory H. Speciﬁcally, Wang Geon warns, “Do not promote southwestern area
(Jeolla region) people to higher government positions, for their minds resemble the rugged mountains
surrounding them.” The impacts of these social prejudices on regionalism continued through the
Koryo and Choson dynasties (A.D. 1392–A.D. 1910) and eventually became deeply rooted in minds,
thoughts, and behavior, as an implicit social value inﬂuencing job opportunities, promotions, marriage
preferences, social networks, and other aspects of everyday life [70].
In contrast, Theory P focuses on the value introjection process for anti-Honam prejudice and a
political objective of Park Jung Hee’s regime (1963–1979). As Kim [66] describes, when institutional
predictability and accountability are uncertain, people tend to rely on speciﬁc social network ties
to eliminate potential risk factors, maintain a regime, and achieve the prolonged one-man rule.
Because Park Jung Hee held power though a coup d’etat, he faced a lack of popular legitimacy
and justiﬁcation. Therefore, he strategically allocated political and economic resources through
personal network ties in his home base in the Gyeongsang province in exchange for the loyalty to
pursue stabilization, handle possible counter-coups, and secure his position in the long term [66,69,70].
Politically, for example, 160 government-appointed ministers were from Gyeongsang under the
military regime (1963–1987), whereas just 50 were from Jeolla [ 66]. Similarly, other political elites,
such as generals and politicians, were also largely from the Gyeongsang province. Economically,
Park Jung Hee concentrated on the Seoul (central)-Busan (Gyeongsang) corridor to allocate resources
for economic development. Thus, those regions became heavily industrialized while other regions,
especially Jeolla, were relatively neglected [69]. Kim [66] emphasizes that the authoritarian regime
created regional economic and political inequalities and conﬂicts, particularly between the Gyeongsang
and Jeolla provinces, as a “divide-and-conquer strategy” to maintain despotic power. Then, Park Jung
Hee’s successors, Chun Doo Hwan and Roh Tae Woo, who also hailed from the Gyeongsang region,
sustained these strategies or policies of providing Gyeongsang with preferential treatment while
Jeolla lagged. Residents of Jeolla felt this relative deprivation, and regional conﬂicts have continued
to date. In summary, Theory H and P both state that Korean regionalism across the Gyeongsang
and Jeolla provinces played a decisive role during the rapid advance of industrialization and

--- PAGE 9 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 9 of 25
democratization, including in the formation of social networks, information and resource channels,
shaping of government policies, and bureaucrat-business networks.
Regionalism has continuously been a dominant force behind the social cleavage in government
policies toward the Gyeongsang and Jeolla provinces and through signiﬁcant economic changes
during the industrialization and marketization period since 1960. At the start of industrialization,
Park Jung Hee aggressively focused on export-led and outward-oriented policies based on the free
trade zones in Busan and Masan in the Gyeongsang region. Under central government-planned
economic development policies, all resources were strategically distributed to the light, heavy, and
chemical industry sectors by encouraging the development of large conglomerates or chaebols and
forming close interrelations or collusions with them [ 70,71]. Many of these corporations received
special favors from the government in exchange for donations, gifts, bribes, and other payments,
and enjoyed permits for regulatory market entry, preferential bank loans, and a ﬁxed-wage system.
Through cronyism, this government-businesses cooperation led to unprecedented economic growth
with GDP growing by an average of 10% annually between 1962 and 1994 [71].
However, Park [ 70] notes that government-guided rapid industrialization also involved a
“growth ﬁrst and distribution later strategy” that resulted in a bipolarized developmental environment.
This environment brought about regional disparities that generated speciﬁc groups and social stratum,
and particular industry sectors, corporations, and regions received beneﬁts while others did not.
Thus, these unequal distributions of resources found in central government policies and regional
economic development created discrimination between Seoul, Gyeongsang province, and other
areas especially Jeolla province [ 70,71]. In 1960, all resources were largely located in the central
metropolitan areas. By the mid-1990s, roughly half the labor market resided in metropolitan regions,
working in manufacturing occupations, expert skill occupations, administrative management, and
ofﬁce occupations, among others. In particular, Gyeongsang holds nearly 30% of administrative
management and ofﬁce occupations and a relatively high share of manual and skilled labor while
Jeolla has only a 9% share of these occupations and is mostly engaged in agriculture and relatively small
enterprises [70]. Thus, the continued economic backwardness of the Jeolla region escalated regional
animosity toward government policies and the Gyeongsang province, which monopolized economic
resources. In response to these discriminatory policies, Jeolla residents initiated a movement for
democracy called the Gwangju Democratization Movement, which resulted in the death of nearly two
thousand civilians because of the government’s military repression operations in 1980 [72]. Since every
president was from the Gyeongsang region, the economic development gap between the Gyeongsang
and Jeolla provinces widened remarkably from 1960 to 1997. Later, when Kim Dae Jung was elected
president in 1997, Jeolla challenged Gyeongsang for economic resources [66].
Similarly, political capital also had a signiﬁcant effect on ﬁrm survival during the industrialization
period. Because the government built the overall business environment, allocated economic resources,
and regulated market transactions, well-connected ﬁrms could improve performance with the full
support of the government while poorly connected ﬁrms barely survived [73]. More recently, the most
well-known examples are the bankruptcy of the Daewoo conglomerate, founded in 1967, and the
survival of Hyundai, founded in 1946, during the Asian ﬁnancial crisis in 1997. Hyundai supported
the government’s uniﬁcation policy toward North Korea by investing a substantial amount of money,
establishing close connections, and providing subsidies of a few billion. However, when Daewoo’s
chairman met with government bureaucrats and Kim Dae Jung, he demanded changes to government
policies to beneﬁt his ﬁrm, exacerbating the conﬂicts between them, and thus, the government took no
action when Daewoo had trouble with ﬁnancing [66].
4. Hypotheses Development
From 1961 to 1992, three generals (Park Jung Hee, Chun Doo Hwan, and Roh Tae Woo), all from
the southeastern (Gyeongsang) region, held power in South Korea. In 1987, a massive pro-democracy
movement broke out and Chun Doo Hwan agreed to the citizens’ demand for democratization by

--- PAGE 10 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 10 of 25
accepting a direct presidential election system in a breakthrough for South Korean democratization [69].
Then, from 1993 to 1997, Kim Yong Sam, from the southeastern region, was the ﬁrst civilian
president since the military dictatorship began in 1961. In 1997, during the Asian ﬁnancial crisis,
Korean voters elected former dissident Kim Dae Jung from the Jeolla region, which was the ﬁrst
peaceful transfer of presidential power to the opposition [26,69]. In 2002, the pro-democratic candidate
Roh Moo Hyun, who was born in the Gyeongsang region, was elected president, which was another
milestone in the history of democratic transitions in Korea. Because the driving forces of regional
rivalry, the “Three Kims,” all retired and because Roh Moo Hyun’s home base was the Jeolla region,
which favored the democratic party, regionalism faded somewhat [ 69]. Then, in December 2007,
Lee Myong Bak from the Gyeongsang region won the president election, which resulted in another
political regime change between the ruling and opposition parties.
Social conﬂict between the Gyeongsang and Jeolla provinces has existed for a long time in Korean
history. Given how political and economic resources are allocated, regional competition has become
stronger to secure better positions. As Kim [ 69] notes, regionalism is a major factor in the social
cleavage that is “embedded in local and regional ties rooted in Korean society.” The presidential
election witnessed in-group solidarity but out-group animosity across regions [66]. When a regime
changes, the value of political network ties also tends to change and no ﬁrm has the assurance that a
future government will have a positive or negative effect on ﬁrm performance or value.
In December 1997, pro-democratic candidate Kim Dae Jung from the opposition Millennium
Democratic Party (MDP) won the presidential election. The most crucial factors for Kim Dae Jung’s
victory were the formation of a regional coalition with Kim Jong Pil, whose home base was the
Chungcheong region, and the internal division of the ruling Grand National Party (GNP) [ 69].
The prominent opposition candidate was Lee Hoi Chang, whose home base was the Gyeongsang
region. He performed well in Gyeongsang, receiving nearly 55% of the votes (55.1% in Gyeongsang
Namdo (North) and 61.9% in Gyeongsang Bukdo (South)) while he received roughly 3% of the votes
in rival Jeolla (3.2% in Jeolla Namdo and 4.5% in Jeolla Bukdo). By contrast, Kim Dae Jung received
an overwhelming 92% of the votes from Jeolla, his base (94.6% in Jeolla Namdo and 92.3% in Jeolla
Bukdo), whereas he received roughly 11% of the votes from the rival Gyeongsang province (11% in
Gyeongsang Namdo and 13.7% in Gyeongsang Bukdo). Because the third candidate, Rhee In Je, whose
home base was Chungcheong, took a share of the votes for Gyeongsang Namdo from Lee Hoi Chang.
The latter failed to win the election.
These stark differences between the Gyeongsang and Jeolla regions’ votes reﬂect their hostile
relationships. From 1961 to 1997, Jeolla residents suffered discriminatory treatment from three former
generals (Park Jung Hee, Chun Doo Hwan, and Roh Tae Woo) and one civilian leader (Kim Yong Sam),
who all came from the Gyeongsang province. Gyeongsang monopolized political and economic
resources for nearly 35 years, excluding the Jeolla region. Consequently, in the Jeolla region, over 90%
of votes were for Kim Dae Jung while only 3% were for Lee Hoi Chang. In the same context,
in Gyeongsang, only 11% of votes were for Kim Dae Jung, whereas 55% of votes were for Lee Hoi Chang.
Later, Kim Dae Jung appointed individuals from Jeolla to key government posts, such as the public
enterprise president and even to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, even though he had promised
to resolve the regional cleavage during his presidency [ 69]. The proportion of government posts
appointed to individuals from Jeolla increased remarkably from 14% to 27% while the proportion of
appointments from Gyeongsang decreased from 45% to 25% [69]. These regime changes lead us to
propose the following hypotheses.
Hypothesis 1a (H1a). In Gyeongsang, political connections are negatively correlated with ﬁrm value during
the Kim Dae Jung administration.
Hypothesis 1b(H1b). In Jeolla, political connections are positively correlated with ﬁrm value during the Kim
Dae Jung administration.

--- PAGE 11 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 11 of 25
In December 2002, South Korea chose a liberal candidate from the ruling MDP , Roh Moo Hyun,
whose home base was Jeolla, as the next president. Roh Moo Hyun’s victory was attributable
to two factors: his electoral alliance with Chung Moon Joon—a family member of the Hyundai
conglomerate—to form a uniﬁed candidacy, and the younger generation’s preference for MDP (Kim,
2009). The opposing GNP candidate was Lee Hoi Chang. He performed well in Gyeongsang, receiving
over 67.7% of the votes (67.5% in Gyeongsang Namdo and 73.4% in Gyeongsang Bukdo). However,
he received only 4% of the votes in the rival Jeolla province (4.6% in Jeolla Namdo and 6.1% in Jeolla
Bukdo). On the contrary, Roh Moo Hyun received an overwhelming 91% of the votes in Jeolla (93.3% in
Jeolla Namdo and 91.5% in Jeolla Bukdo), and approximately 21% of the votes in the rival Gyeongsang
province (27.0% in Gyeongsang Namdo and 21.6% in Gyeongsang Bukdo).
The results of the 2002 presidential election, like those of the 1997 presidential election,
clearly show that regionalism or regional cleavage remained as important a determinant as ever.
Even after ﬁve years, over 90% of the votes in Jeolla were for Roh Moo Hyun while only 4% were
for Lee Hoi Chang. Similarly, in Gyeongsang, 21% of the votes were for Roh Moo Hyun while
an overwhelming 67.7% were for Lee Hoi Chang. When elected, Roh Moo Hyun stated, “It is truly
disappointing that we were unable to tear down the wall of regionalism this election” [26]. Nonetheless,
although Roh Moo Hyun received fewer votes than Lee Hoi Chang in the Gyeongsang region, his 21%
share of votes (27.0% in Gyeongsang Namdo) was a somewhat outstanding achievement compared to
his 11% share in the 1997 presidential election. There were several reasons for these subtle changes
in regional rivalry during the 2002 presidential election. On the one hand, because the major drivers
of regional rivalry, the “Three Kims” (Kim Yong Sam, Kim Dae Jung, and Kim Jong Pil) all formally
retired from ofﬁce. Regionalism was slowly attenuated even though it maintained a major effect on
voters. On the other hand, because Roh Moo Hyun’s area of support was the democratic-based Jeolla
province, but his hometown was in Gyeongsang (speciﬁcally Gyeongsang Namdo), these dualities of
political ideology and birthplace-based regionalism inﬂuenced the election [69]. Because government
personnel leaned towards the Gyeongsang province during the administration of the three generals
and one civilian leader and towards the Jeolla province during the Kim Dae Jung administration,
the complexity of Roh Moo Hyun’s background provides an exploratory environment for the
relationships between regionalism, social network ties, and ﬁrm value. In fact, after assuming ofﬁce,
Roh Moo Hyun carried out personnel changes considering the regional arrangement. Although he
received over 90% of votes from the Jeolla region, 35% of his government personnel were from the
Gyeongsang province and 27% were from the Jeolla region. He also pursued a government reform
agenda toward more decentralization and balanced development between regions. In 2004, the Special
Law on Decentralization Promotion was enacted that included transferring all central government
agencies, most government ministries, and even the capital city, for the purpose of local autonomy,
regional politics, and a balanced national development policy [70]. These regime changes lead us to
propose the following hypotheses.
Hypothesis 2a (H2a). In the Gyeongsang province, political connections are positively correlated with ﬁrm
value during the Roh Moo Hyun administration.
Hypothesis 2b (H2b). In the Jeolla province, political connections are positively correlated with ﬁrm value
during the Roh Moo Hyun administration.
The presidential election of 2007 was marked by the victory of the opposition candidate from the
GNP , Lee Myung Bak. Lee Myung Bak scored a landslide win of 48.7% of the vote against the opposing
candidate from the United New Democratic Party, Chung Dong Young, who received only 26.0% of
the vote [69]. Lee’s victory was the second shift in political power from the democratic towards the
conservative party, after the ﬁrst shift in the opposite direction in 1997. This second shift resulted
from discontent with Roh Moo Hyun’s weak presidency and with the lingering economic uncertainty
at home during his administration [69]. Korean voters decisively chose Lee Myung Bak hoping for

--- PAGE 12 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 12 of 25
economic progress, stability, and a better quality of life, based on his career as the president of Hyundai
Engineering and Construction and as the former mayor of Seoul [ 69]. He received over 55% of the
vote from his base in Gyeongsang (55.0% in Gyeongsang Namdo and 72.5% in Gyeongsang Bukdo)
and only 9% of the vote from the rival Jeolla province (9.2% in Jeolla Namdo and 9.0% in Jeolla Bukdo).
In contrast, Chung Dong Young received an overwhelming 78% of the vote from his base in Jeolla
(78.6% in Jeolla Namdo and 81.6% in Jeolla Bukdo), and only 6% of the vote in rival Gyeongsang
(12.3% in Gyeongsang Namdo and 6.7% in Gyeongsang Bukdo).
As Kim [ 69] discusses, although the major themes inﬂuencing constituents’ voting behavior
changed over time from democratization, liberalization, equality of opportunity, policy changes,
and resolving polarization to economic stabilization, individual well-being, and advancing the
overall country, regionalism strongly affected the 2007 presidential election. In the Jeolla region,
over 78% of votes belonged to Chung Dong Young while only 9% of votes were for Lee Myung
Bak. However, in the Gyeongsang region, 55% of votes (72.5% in Gyeongsang Bukdo) were for
Lee Myung Bak while only 6% of votes were for Chung Dong Young. The contrast between
the two rival regions during the presidential election became sharper during the Lee Myung Bak
administration. After taking ofﬁce as president, Lee Myung Bak was often criticized for his personnel
appointments to key government positions. These appointments were referred to as “Ko So Young,”
which stands for Korea University, the Somang church, and the Gyeongsang region, where Lee
received strong constituent support in the presidential election [74]. In fact, 45.2% of Lee Myung Bak’s
appointments to important posts, such as senior presidential secretaries, ministers, National Police
Agency Commissioner, and government-afﬁliated institutes. In his initial years in ofﬁce, there were
individuals from Gyeongsang while only 16.2% were individuals from Jeolla. The corresponding
ﬁgures for Roh Moo Hyun’s administration were 35% for Gyeongsang and 27% for Jeolla [ 75].
The regime change from a strongly liberal Jeolla province towards a strongly conservative Gyeongsang
province after a decade resulted in favoritism to Gyeongsang and discrimination against Jeolla during
the Lee Myung Bak administration. These regime changes lead us to propose the following hypotheses.
Hypothesis 3a (H3a). In the Gyeongsang province, political connections are positively correlated with ﬁrm
value during the Lee Myung Bak administration.
Hypothesis 3b (H3b). In the Jeolla province, political connections are negatively correlated with ﬁrm value
during the Lee Myung Bak administration.
Political connections still positively affect firm value over time after political and economic
liberalization remains open. Some scholars argue that the value of political connections gradually
diminish because firms no longer require government intervention but mainly focus on their own
capabilities, strategies, management, and corporate governance structures relative to their competitors.
Many empirical results support this perspective in terms of market-based competition [ 3,8,47,49].
However, others argue that the government still plays a significant role in market economies over time
as a director of markets, regulator of industry policies, and even as a patron of specific firms [12,55,57,58].
In the three decades since 1963, South Korea has experienced a drastic transformation of its political
and economic environment towards liberalization. This remarkable turnaround has not only led
to democratization and economic development but has also reinforced reciprocal social network
ties, regional cleavage and conflict, exclusion, and rivalry competition for scarce resources during
regime changes. Although collusion between politicians and businesses was once deemed a necessary
evil for economic growth, it was also deemed a necessary resource for the survival of firms over
time. For example, the countless scandals such as illegal political fundraising, arrests of CEOs,
and investigations against former politicians covered on the front pages of newspapers after the
presidential election reflect that political connections have become a common phenomenon after
political and economic liberalization and that political and economic actors must fiercely battle to
capture political and economic benefits [74,76–81].

--- PAGE 13 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 13 of 25
Hypothesis 4 (H4). Political connections will continue to be highly positive and signiﬁcant determinants of
ﬁrm value as time passes and regimes change after political and economic liberalization in South Korea.
Overall, testing the proposed hypotheses allows for an investigation into whether corporate
political ties can create signiﬁcantly positive or negative ﬁrm value depending on political
regimes/regions, which previous literature has failed to study.
5. Data and Measurements
5.1. Sample
This study focuses on Korean ﬁrms listed on the Korea Stock Exchange in the Gyeongsang
and Jeolla regions. The number of ﬁrms increases over the study period from 89 (Gyeongsang 75,
Jeolla 14) in 1998 to 177 (Gyeongsang 154, Jeolla 23) in 2013. First, it excludes 25 ﬁrms in the transport
equipment-renting sector in the Gyeongsang province because they are paper companies based on
the Ship Investment Company Act of 2002. Doing so balances the Gyeongsang sample with the
sample from Jeolla, where no such companies exist. Second, several IPOs and delisted companies
with tenures of less than 10 years during the study period are also excluded. Lastly, although Korean
ﬁrms are obligated to report their ﬁnancial data and information to the Ministry of Trade, Industry,
and Energy and the Korea Stock Exchange, some ﬁrms lack available data because of omitted or noisy
information before 2000. Thus, a sample of 93 ﬁrms with 77 from Gyeongsang (83%) and 16 from
Jeolla (17%), are constructed, spanning 1998 to 2013. This sample covers the majority of ﬁrms from
each region. Reliable ﬁnancial data and socio-political information for the 93 ﬁrms are extracted from
the KIS–VALUE database, the KOCOINFO database, the Korea Investor’s Network for Disclosure
System (KIND) channel, and Korea Stock Annual reports. In particular, comprehensive data, such as
total market value, total assets, total liabilities, and R&D intensity as well as information about CEOs,
chairpersons, and directors, are obtained from KIS–VALUE, which is operated by NICE Investor
Service, a leading credit rating agency in Korea. Other sources are utilized for a robustness check
between databases.
5.2. Dependent Variable
Tobin’s Q, which is the ratio of the market value of a physical asset to its replacement value, is
well known and widely accepted as a proxy for ﬁrm value and is commonly estimated as follows:
(market value of common stock + book value of preferred stock + book value of debt)/(book value of
total assets) [49,82]. Following Black, Jang, and Kim [ 82], we use the book value of total assets as a
proxy for the replacement value because the replacement value is not easily obtained from ﬁrms and
Korean ﬁrms reﬂect the value of their tangible assets to the current market value. Many studies focus
only on the stock returns of politicians, CEOs, board members, and more. Thus, this novel dataset sheds
light on more macro-level explanations for the overall ﬁrm value of political capital [ 4,13,23,26,42].
Table 1 provides the descriptive statistics of Tobin’s Q for 93 ﬁrms in the Gyeongsang and Jeolla regions.
For example, the number of ﬁrms for Region G Tobin’s Q under Regime 1 is 847, which means that,
during 1998 to 2003, the Tobin’s Q of 847 ﬁrms is used in Gyeongsang.

--- PAGE 14 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 14 of 25
Table 1. Descriptive statistics.
Regime 1
Variable Name Obs. Mean S.D. Min Max
Region G
Tobin’s Q 847 0.833 0.268 0.035 2.488
Region J
Tobin’s Q 176 0.874 0.308 0 2.175
Regime 2
Variable Name Obs. Mean S.D. Min Max
Region G
Tobin’s Q 770 0.895 0.387 0.258 3.275
Region J
Tobin’s Q 160 0.926 0.345 0.408 2.204
Regime 3
Variable Name Obs. Mean S.D. Min Max
Region G
Tobin’s Q 770 0.900 0.386 0.210 4.729
Region J
Tobin’s Q 160 0.970 0.393 0.538 4.454
Regime 1 = 1998S1–2003S1, Regime 2 = 2003S2–2008S1, Regime 3 = 2008S2–2013S1. Region G = the Gyeongsang
province, or the southeastern region, Region J = the Jeolla province, or the southwestern region.
5.3. Independent Variables
Many previous studies suggest deﬁnitions of political connections. Prominently, Faccio [ 3]
deﬁnes them as “one of the company’s large shareholders or top directors, such as CEO, president,
vice–president or secretary, is a member of the parliament, a minister, or the Chief of the State.”
Similarly, Boubakri, Cosset, and Saffar [10] consider that, “at least one member of its board of directors
or its supervisory board is or was a politician such as a member of parliament, a minister or any
other top appointed-bureaucrat.” In Germany, Niessen and Ruenzi [49] deﬁne them as “at least one
member or delegate of the Bundestag, supervisory board or advisory council.” In a recent study,
Haveman et al. [34] consider them as “set equal to one in years when the focal ﬁrm’s CEO, at least one
other top manager, or at least one member of the board of directors had served as the chief ofﬁcer or
deputy chief ofﬁcer at the county level (chu ji) or above.”
Overall, considering the general deﬁnitions across studies, a ﬁrm is deﬁned as politically
connected if one of the following criteria is met: (1) a CEO, chairperson, director, large shareholder,
or top ofﬁcer is/was a member of parliament, a minister, or top government ofﬁcial or senior civil
servant, (2) the CEO or chairperson publicly supports a presidential candidate, or he or his employees
participate in the presidential campaign, (3) the CEO or chairperson is reported by at least one of the
major newspapers as supporting a certain political party, or (4) other social relations in terms of the
Korean social network yonjul, kin ties, and school relations exist. This deﬁnition is very close to that of
Faccio [3] but speciﬁcally adds a fourth yardstick reﬂecting the socio-political environment of Korea.
For example, one of the directors of the Samsung Fine Chemicals Corporation from Gyeongsang
was the senior civil servant of the Fair Trade Commission in 2008, and, thus, the company is politically
connected, according to criterion (1). Similarly, the chairperson of Kumho Asiana from Jeolla served as
the Presidential Secretary in 2005, and another director was a judge of the Constitutional Court. Thus,
again, this is deﬁned as a connected ﬁrm. Furthermore, in 2007, the executive members of the union of
nearly all of Hyundai’s afﬁliates, including HyunDai Mipo DockYard and HyunDai Hysco corporations
from Gyeongsang, declared their support for Lee Myung Bak in the 2007 presidential election [83] and
are politically connected, according to criterion (2). A major shareholder of DaYou Smart Aluminum
ﬁrm from Jeolla is related by marriage to a politician, satisfying criterion (4). Other relations also
include “indirect political connections,” such as lobbying, sponsorships, and well known relationships
with the media. For example, the chairperson of Bohae Brew from Jeolla was arrested and investigated
for suspicious lobbying for politicians in 2012, which also reﬂects connectedness [84].

--- PAGE 15 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 15 of 25
To carefully capture the sources of political connections, a list of all CEOs, chairpersons, directors,
and large shareholders between 1998 and 2013 is ﬁrst extracted from the KIS-VALUE database. The data
are then compared with the other sources using the list of annual and semi-annual business reports
obtained from KIND and collected data on the individuals’ work histories, speciﬁc social networks,
kinship, and more from major websites, newspapers, and each ﬁrms’ homepage. Lastly, the study
searched for news about their political ties in the form of participation in presidential campaigns and
public declarations of support for speciﬁc candidates or parties. For instance, the study looked at
news in three major newspapers called Chosun, Joongang, and Donga. Correspondingly, a dummy
variable, PC, was constructed, which takes a value of one if a ﬁrm is viewed as politically connected
and zero otherwise. To address these potential problems of unobserved political connections between
businesses and government, a new dummy variable, PC_new, was constructed, which takes an
additional criterion into consideration, criterion (5). The CEO or chairperson was born in Gyeongsang
or Jeolla. As a result, 18 additional ﬁrms (fourteen ﬁrms in Gyeongsang and four ﬁrms in Jeolla) are
labeled as politically connected ﬁrms during the study period (Table 2). In addition, a new dummy
variable, PC_area, was constructed based on the birthplaces and supporting regions of presidents
in the four sub-regions (the Gyeongsang Bukdo, Gyeongsang Namdo province, the Jeolla Bukdo,
and Jeolla Namdo province) and their relations to each former president during the regime changes.
Table 2 provides the numbers of politically connected ﬁrms and non-connected ﬁrms in each province
depending on different measurements.
Table 2. Political connection variables.
Regime 1 Region G Region J
Variable name Obs. (=1) Obs. (=0) Obs. (=1) Obs. (=0)
Political connection dummy 48 29 11 5
Political connection dummy_new 54 23 13 3
Political connection dummy_area 45 32 9 7
Regime 3 Region G Region J
Variable name Obs. (=1) Obs. (=0) Obs. (=1) Obs. (=0)
Political connection dummy 41 36 8 8
Political connection dummy_new 44 33 10 6
Political connection dummy_area 36 41 5 11
Regime 1 = 1998S1–2003S1, Regime 2 = 2003S2–2008S1, Regime 3 = 2008S2–2013S1. Region G = the Gyeongsang
province, or the southeastern region, Region J = the Jeolla province, or the southwestern region.
5.4. Estimated Equation
The baseline equation to be estimated is shown below.
Valuei,t =α+β1·PC(O4IO)and ship between istic ger incentives to a f f ectholders.ve strong incentive to inholderse should consider other fi,t
+β2·Firmsizei,t +β3·Leveragei,t +β4·R&Di,t +Year Dummyt +εi,t
where the subscripts i and t represent the ﬁrm and half-year, respectively. The dependent variable,
Value, denotes Tobin’s Q. Control variables are used in the regression models as follows: Firmsize is
calculated as the log of total assets, Leverage is measured as the total liabilities divided by the total
assets, and R&D refers to R&D intensity, computed as the ratio of R&D expenditures to annual sales.
The independent variable, PC, is a dummy variable for political connections. The year ﬁxed effects are
controlled using year dummies from 1998 to 2013. This model is based on those of Nee and Opper [52]
and Ang et al. [ 49]. However, their models focus on the effects of market structure and corporate
governance on ﬁrm value. Instead, this study focuses on the effects of political regime change and
regional competition or discrimination on ﬁrm value over time.
The study includes all variables for 93 ﬁrms with dummies for each of the three political regimes
and the two regions. The ﬁrst regime (1998S1–2003S1, Regime 1) covers the last year of civilian leader
Kim Young Sam and the ﬁve-year presidency of democratic president Kim Dae Jung. The second

--- PAGE 16 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 16 of 25
regime (2003S2–2008S1, Regime 2) includes the last year of Kim Dae Jung’s presidency and the
presidency of his like-minded successor, Roh Mu Hyun. The third regime (2008S2–2013S1, Regime 3)
includes the last year of Roh Moo Hyun’s presidency and the second regime changeover from liberal
to conservative during the Lee Myung Bak administration. These half-year lagged regime dummies
resolve the potential endogeneity problem.
In addition, the study constructs regional dummies for the southeastern (the Gyeongsang province,
Region G) and southwestern regions (the Jeolla province, Region J). Because the regime changes are
unexpectedly exogenous events for the ﬁrms in the sample in both regions, this dataset of regime
and region variables can provide ﬁrm-level dynamics to cleanly identify “the changing role of these
political capital variables over the passage of time” [26,53].
All the data for 93 ﬁrms in Gyeongsang and Jeolla from 1998 to 2013 are observed semi-annually.
The pooled estimated generalized least squares estimation with seemingly unrelated regressions,
proposed by Zellner, was used, which addresses both period heteroskedasticity and general correlations
of observations within a given cross-section.
6. Results
6.1. Basic Result
The results of the baseline model estimation are presented in Table 3. Most results fully support
the basic concept from many other studies of emerging and transitioning economies that the political
connections have signiﬁcantly positive or negative associations with ﬁrm value especially in relation
to regime changes.
The ﬁrst two columns show the results for the Gyeongsang and Jeolla provinces during the Kim
Dae Jung administration (Regime 1). As predicted by H1a, political connections in the Gyeongsang
province have a negative correlation with ﬁrm value, which is statistically signiﬁcant at the 5%
level during Regime 1. Moreover, H1b, which predicts that political connections in the Jeolla
province are positively correlated with ﬁrm value during Regime 1 holds, and the result is statistically
signiﬁcant at the 10% level. These results are consistent with the study’s expectation that, during
president Kim Dae Jung’s administration, ﬁrms in Jeolla received beneﬁts to ﬁrm value that were
supported by the government’s political and economic resources despite the limited number of
samples. More importantly, this includes the prolonged discrimination and exclusion from government
policies. However, those in Gyeongsang saw a decrease in ﬁrm value resulting from discriminatory
treatment by the government in terms of the ﬁrst regime changeover from conservative to liberal parties.
Furthermore, because the empirical results show that politically connected ﬁrms have signiﬁcantly
positive or negative associations relative to non-connected ﬁrms in both regions, the results also
partially support H4, which states that political connections will continue to be signiﬁcant determinants
of ﬁrm value over time throughout regime changes after political and economic liberalization in
South Korea.
Columns 3 and 4 report the results for the Gyeongsang and Jeolla provinces during the Roh Mu
Hyun administration (Regime 2). In accordance with H2a, political connections in Gyeongsang have
statistically highly signiﬁcant and positive associations with ﬁrm value during Regime 2. Similarly,
in Jeolla, as predicted by H2b, politically connected ﬁrms have a positive and statistically signiﬁcant
association with ﬁrm value during Regime 2. These results also indicate strong statistical support
for the argument that, after Roh Mu Hyun assumed ofﬁce, ﬁrms in Jeolla continued to be offered
the special privileges by the government that took ofﬁce during Kim Dae Jung’s administration and,
thus, the estimated coefﬁcient also sharply increased because of the cumulative effect over time.
Surprisingly, although politically connected ﬁrms in Gyeongsang have a negative association with
ﬁrm value during Kim Dae Jung’s administration after the regime change to his successor, Roh Mu
Hyun. Political connections are also positively associated with ﬁrm value in this province. This result is
primarily because Roh Mu Hyun was from Gyeongsang and by his reform agenda of decentralization

--- PAGE 17 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 17 of 25
and balanced regional development. Once again, consistent with H4, the impact of political network
ties with the government is positively and signiﬁcantly correlated with ﬁrm value and becomes a
signiﬁcant determinant of ﬁrm value over time throughout regime changes after political and economic
liberalization in South Korea.
Columns 5 and 6 present the results for the Gyeongsang and Jeolla provinces during Lee Myung
Bak’s administration (Regime 3). As predicted by H3a, political connections in Gyeongsang have a
positive and highly statistically signiﬁcant association with ﬁrm value Regime 3. On the contrary,
in accordance with H3b, political connections have a signiﬁcantly negative correlation with ﬁrm value
in Jeolla during Regime 3. As above, the empirical results fully support the hypotheses regarding
the second regime change from liberal to conservative parties in the 2007 presidential election.
Firms in Gyeongsang enjoyed more positive beneﬁts than in the former regime, which resulted
from the preferential treatment of Lee Myong Bak’s administration. Conversely, the effects of political
connections on ﬁrms in Jeolla changed drastically from positive to negative, which is explained by the
severe exclusion from political and economic resources during Regime 3. Moreover, as predicted by H4,
the political connections in both regions are clearly important and statistically signiﬁcant determinants
of ﬁrm value over time throughout the regime changes after political and economic liberalization in
South Korea.
Lastly, H4 received strong support from the overall results. Political connections continue to
be signiﬁcant determinants of ﬁrm value and to have highly positive effects in the Gyeongsang
and Jeolla provinces during 1998S1-2013S1 except under special circumstances in which retribution,
discrimination, or exclusion were driven by the government due to regime changes even after political
and economic liberalization. In particular, although the number of politically connected ﬁrms decreased
(Table 2), the absolute values of the coefﬁcients in both regions increased over time, which reﬂects
bitterly intense competition among ﬁrms to secure new political capital. Some ﬁrms lose the game
while others actively invest in forging political connection over time. This result is also similar to that
of Siegel [26].
Several control variables are also important for explaining ﬁrm value. Overall, ﬁrm size has
positive or negative values and statistically signiﬁcant correlations with ﬁrm value, with one exception.
These results are also similar to the ﬁnding of many prior studies that ﬁrm size may affect ﬁrm
value depending on the extent of corruption, the quality of corporate governance, or the institutional
environment, and more [ 16,42,52,62]. Speciﬁcally, in the Gyeongsang province, the value of this
coefﬁcient changed from positive to negative. However, in the Jeolla region, ﬁrm size has a consistently
negative association with ﬁrm value over time. Furthermore, leverage has a positive and signiﬁcant
correlation with ﬁrm value in all regions across the study period, which is also supported by other
studies [3,42,48,49,85]. However, the R&D intensity variable is not signiﬁcant in general. However,
it is only marginally signiﬁcant during Regime 3 in the Jeolla region.
Table 3. Estimation results: basic results.
Regime 1 Regime 2 Regime 3
Region G Region J Region G Region J Region G Region J
−0.029 ** 0.014 * 0.275 *** 0.041 * 0.313 *** −0.084 **
PC dummy (0.010) (0.008) (0.017) (0.024) (0.019) (0.022)
−0.065 *** −0.138 *** 0.026 −0.107 ** 0.081 ** −0.163 **
Firm size (0.015) (0.024) (0.023) (0.038) (0.025) (0.035)
0.781 *** 0.768 *** 0.522 *** 0.639 *** 0.345 *** 0.684 ***
Leverage (0.024) (0.019) (0.052) (0.051) (0.062) (0.079)
−0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.012 −0.000 0.000 **
R&D intensity (0.000) (0.001) (0.000) (0.008) (0.007) (0.000)
Year ﬁxed effects YES YES YES YES YES YES
R2 0.62 0.91 0.44 0.62 0.36 0.41
Number of Observations 847 176 770 160 770 160
Standard errors are given in parentheses. *, *, and *** denote signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% level, respectively.
Regime 1 = 1998S1–2003S1, Regime 2 = 2003S2–2008S1, Regime 3 = 2008S2–2013S1. Region G = the Gyeongsang
province, or the southeastern region, Region J = the Jeolla province, or the southwestern region.

--- PAGE 18 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 18 of 25
6.2. Robust Results
To check whether the above results and inferences are robust, the study performs a further test by
adding a new criterion to distinguish between PC and non-PC ﬁrms. Under the previous deﬁnition
of PC, the study considered the social relations between CEOs or chairpersons and political ﬁgures,
excluding their birthplace regions. As Kim [ 66] notes, the formation of the Korean social network
yonjul is signiﬁcantly affected by whether individuals have the same region of origin. Birthplace-based
regionalism extensively affects the building of interpersonal social networks including the promotion of
political and economic elites and, especially, presidential and parliamentary elections during political
and economic liberalization in South Korea. Prominently, Siegel [26] generates rich empirical evidence
that having a CEO or chairperson who was born in Jeolla, Chungcheng, or even North Korea has a
signiﬁcantly positive or negative correlation with forming cross-border alliances when South Korea
liberalizes. Table 4 presents the estimation results using the same empirical strategy as in the baseline
equation, but the independent variable is now PC_new rather than PC.
Table 4. First robustness test results: New deﬁnition of political connection.
Regime 1 Regime 2 Regime 3
Region G Region J Region G Region J Region G Region J
−0.040 *** 0.019 ** 0.246 *** 0.049 ** 0.278 *** −0.051 **
PC dummy_new (0.010) (0.007) (0.017) (0.024) (0.018) (0.022)
−0.064 *** −0.148 *** 0.025 −0.108 ** 0.083 ** −0.152 **
Firm size (0.017) (0.025) (0.023) (0.038) (0.027) (0.066)
0.767 *** 0.771 *** 0.525 *** 0.635 *** 0.335 *** 0.716 ***
Leverage (0.023) (0.020) (0.052) (0.051) (0.063) (0.078)
−0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.012 −0.000 0.000 **
R&D intensity (0.000) (0.001) (0.000) (0.008) (0.007) (0.000)
Year ﬁxed effects YES YES YES YES YES YES
R2 0.62 0.91 0.44 0.62 0.36 0.41
Number of Observations 847 176 770 160 770 160
Standard errors are reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** represent signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels,
respectively. Regime 1 = 1998S1–2003S1, Regime 2 = 2003S2 2008S1, Regime 3 = 2008S2–2013S1. Region G = the
Gyeongsang province, or southeastern region, Region J = the Jeolla province, or southwestern region.
The results of the robustness check, based on the added deﬁnition of political connection, such as
the basic results in Table 3, ﬁrmly support all hypotheses. Columns 1 and 2 show that political
connections in Gyeongsang have a negative effect on ﬁrm value, which is statistically signiﬁcant
at the 1% level during Regime 1 (compared with the 5% level in Table 3). However, those in
Jeolla have a positive effect on ﬁrm value during Regime 1, which is statistically signiﬁcant at the
5% level (compared with the 10% level in Table 3). In columns 3 and 4, political connections in
Gyeongsang still have a positive and statistically highly signiﬁcant association with ﬁrm during
Regime 2 even though the value of this coefﬁcient is slightly smaller than that in Table 3. Additionally,
in Jeolla, political connections have a positive and statistically signiﬁcant association with ﬁrm value
at the 5% level during Regime 2 (compared with the 10% level in Table 3). In columns 5 and 6,
political connections in Gyeongsang still have positive and highly statistically signiﬁcant effects on
ﬁrm value during Regime 3 while they have a signiﬁcantly negative correlation with ﬁrm value in
Jeolla. Yet, the value of the coefﬁcient is slightly lower than the corresponding value in Table 3. Lastly,
all the control variables exhibit very similar results to those in Table 3.
Furthermore, the study tests for the robustness of these estimations using a more elaborate
condition. There are cross-sectional subregions even within the southeastern Gyeongsang and
southwestern Jeolla provinces: Gyeongsang Bukdo (North) and Gyeongsang Namdo (South)and
Jeolla Bukdo (North) and Jeolla Namdo (South). Historically, there is longstanding sub-regional
competition within Gyeongsang between the elites from Gyeongsang Bukdo, which are dominated by
Daegu (TK), and those from Gyeongsang Namdo, which are dominated by Busan (PK). Among Korean

--- PAGE 19 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 19 of 25
presidents, Park Jung Hee, Roh Tae Woo, Lee Myung Bak, and current president Park Geun Hye are all
from TK, whereas Chun Doo Hwan, Kim Young Sam, and Roh Mu Hyun are from PK. As Siegel [26]
describes, the competition between the TK-based networks and the PK-based networks for resources
has been ﬁerce since 1980, inﬂuencing the presidential and parliamentary elections, social relations,
and business-government relationship. In fact, the dichotomous results of the presidential elections in
1997, when 61.9% of TK voted for Lee Hoi Chang and 31.3% of PK voted for Rhee In Je, and in 2003,
when 73.4% of TK voted for Lee Hoi Chang and 27.0% of PK voted for Roh Moo Hyun, reﬂect that this
sub-regional competition remains inﬂuential within Gyeongsang. In contrast, such competition has
not generally been observed within Jeolla.
To consider this condition, the study utilizes the political connection dummy_area. First,
during Kim Dae Jung’s administration (Regime 1), the dummy takes the value of one for politically
connected ﬁrms from both the Gyeongsang Namdo and Jeolla Namdo provinces, given that Kim Dae
Jung was born in Jeolla Namdo and the previous president, Kim Young Sam, was born in Gyeongsang
Namdo. Otherwise, the dummy takes a value of zero. Second, during Roh Mu Hyun’s administration
(Regime 2), the dummy takes the value of one for politically connected ﬁrms from both the Gyeongsang
Namdo and Jeolla Namdo provinces, considering that Roh Mu Hyun was born in Gyeongsang Namdo
and the previous president, Kim Dae Jung, was born in Jeolla Namdo. Otherwise, it takes a value of
zero. Third, during Lee Myung Bak’s administration (Regime 3), the dummy takes the value of one for
politically connected ﬁrms from both Gyeongsang Bukdo and Jeolla Namdo since Lee Myung Bak was
born in Japan but his supporting subregion is Gyeongsang Bukdo and the previous president, Roh Mu
Hyun, was born in Gyeongsang Namdo but his supporting subregion is Jeolla Namdo. Speciﬁcally,
the top 500 ﬁrms listed on the Korea Stock Exchange in the Gyeongsang Namdo region are considered
because only 18 of the 77 ﬁrms are located in Gyeongsang Bukdo. Otherwise, the dummy takes a
value of zero. Thus, 20 ﬁrms (13 in Gyeongsang and 2 ﬁrms in Jeolla) are removed from the set of
politically connected ﬁrms during the study period (Table 2). Table 5 shows the estimation results
using the same empirical strategy as in the baseline equation but using PC_area rather than PC as the
independent variable.
Table 5. Second robustness test results: New deﬁnition of political connection.
Regime 1 Regime 2 Regime 3
Region G Region J Region G Region J Region G Region J
PC dummy_area −0.032 ** 0.067 *** 0.211 *** −0.005 0.293 *** −0.159 ***
(0.011) (0.007) (0.017) (0.026) (0.022) (0.034)
Firm size −0.066 *** −0.112 *** 0.048 * −0.114 ** 0.048 −0.208 **
(0.017) (0.025) (0.025) (0.037) (0.030) (0.062)
Leverage 0.777 *** 0.785 *** 0.536 *** 0.655 *** 0.387 *** 0.770***
(0.022) (0.020) (0.054) (0.051) (0.063) (0.078)
R&D intensity −0.000 0.000 −0.000 −0.013 −0.009 0.000
(0.000) (0.001) (0.000) (0.008) (0.007) (0.000)
Year ﬁxed effects YES YES YES YES YES YES
R2 0.62 0.92 0.38 0.62 0.30 0.50
Number of Observations 847 176 770 160 770 160
Standard errors are reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** denote signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels,
respectively. Regime 1 = 1998S1–2003S1, Regime 2 = 2003S2–2008S1, Regime 3 = 2008S2–2013S1. Region G = the
Gyeongsang province, or the southeastern region, Region J = the Jeolla province, or the southwestern region.
The results of the robustness check based on the sub-regional competition, like the basic results in
Table 3, also strongly support all hypotheses. In columns 1 and 2, political connections in Gyeongsang
still have a negative and statistically signiﬁcant correlation with ﬁrm value during Regime 1 even
though the value of the coefﬁcient is slightly higher than in Table 3. In addition, those in Jeolla have a
positive correlation with ﬁrm value during Regime 1. The result is statistically signiﬁcant at the 1%
level (compared with the 10% level in Table 3). In columns 3 and 4, political connections in Gyeongsang

--- PAGE 20 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 20 of 25
still have a positive and statistically highly signiﬁcant association with ﬁrm value during Regime 2
even though the value of the coefﬁcient is slightly lower than that in Table 3. Unexpectedly, in Jeolla,
political connections have a slight negative association with ﬁrm value, and the statistical signiﬁcance
disappears, which differs from signiﬁcance at the 10% level in Table 3. This result is not very surprising
because of the reduced sample size (Table 2). In columns 5 and 6, political connections in Gyeongsang
still have positive and highly statistically signiﬁcant effects on ﬁrm value during Regime 3 even though
the value of the coefﬁcient is slightly lower than it is in Table 3. Furthermore, political connections
still have a negative correlation with ﬁrm value in Jeolla during Regime 3, and this relationship is
statistically signiﬁcant at the 1% level (compared with the 5% level in Table 3). All the results for the
control variables are similar to those in Table 3.
7. Conclusions
Prior studies simply argue that political network ties have only positive, negative, or no effects
on ﬁrm value in a given political and economic environment, but no deﬁnitive empirical study
has addressed the impact of changes in the environment on changes to net ﬁrm value over time in
emerging and transitioning economies. Fundamentally, this study ﬁnds that political network ties to
the regime currently in power have signiﬁcantly positive effects on politically connected ﬁrms but
not on non-connected ﬁrms and that political network ties to the political opposition to the regime in
power has signiﬁcantly negative effects on politically connected ﬁrms but not on non-connected ﬁrms.
Moreover, from a contingency perspective, unexpected political regime changes have a sharp effect on
the relationship between political ties and ﬁrm value over time. Lastly, political network ties continue
to be highly positive and signiﬁcant determinants of ﬁrm value over time throughout regime changes
after the political and economic liberalization in South Korea.
Several prior studies only focus on relationships between political and economic actors as having
positive effects, negative effects, or no correlation with ﬁrm value in emerging and transitioning
economies, but they do not investigate the inﬂuence of changes to the political and economic
environments on overall ﬁrm value as time passes from a contingency perspective [ 1–4,7,9]. Thus,
the ﬁndings of this study further extend the focus of the existing literature by arguing that political
capital is not immovable but rather that a ﬁrm can enjoy positive beneﬁts from reciprocal social network
ties for a certain period, even though these ties can conversely contribute to negative treatment by
a rival network later on. Similarly, negative treatment from a rival network may change at another
time. Clearly, these positive cascades of favorable treatment and negative cascades of out-group
exclusion reinforce regionalism, social cleavage, conﬂict, exclusion, and competition for political and
economic resources during regime changes. Since the study ﬁndings provide evidence that corporate
political ties could have signiﬁcantly positive or negative impact on ﬁrm value depending on political
environments, corporate and political risk management should consider the characteristics and set
time-varying policies.
Another signiﬁcant ﬁnding of this study is that political network ties remained signiﬁcant
determinants of ﬁrm value even after South Korea achieved political and economic liberalization.
Whether political connections gradually diminish in value [3,47,49] or still play a signiﬁcant role [57,58]
after political and economic liberalization is a heated debate in the ﬁeld of political economy.
The empirical results of this study strongly support the notion that business-government network ties
between CEOs, chairpersons, or large shareholders and politicians, top government ofﬁcials, or senior
civil servants generate positive beneﬁts from 1998 to 2013, which is the sample period of this study.
This reﬂects that the government still controls resources in market economies as the director of the
market, the regulator of industry policies, and a patron of speciﬁc ﬁrms after liberalization.
This study also raises further questions that cannot be readily answered with the current data.
First, although this study shows that the value of political connections changes within and between
rival regions as time passes, depending on regime changes, an unanswered question is how different
politically connected ﬁrms are and how many of these differences change over time across ﬁrms in the

--- PAGE 21 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 21 of 25
two regions. As previously mentioned, this study was conducted based on semi-annual data and could
not employ control variables for city-level economic development due to the relatively small sample
size in Jeolla. One possible alternative is to increase the sample size in that region using listed ﬁrms
on the Korean Securities Dealers Automated Quotations, which is similar to the NASDAQ, and to
perform a quantitative comparison within and between those two regions.
Second, although this study uses the standard deﬁnition of political connection, it manually
collected information from databases, government websites, and newspapers. The micro characteristics
of political connections cannot easily be identiﬁed from such sources, which may distort the results.
We need strategies to precisely detect political connectedness between ﬁrms and the government,
reduce the number of sampling errors in constructing dummy variables, and effectively alleviate the
effect of observed heterogeneity across ﬁrms. Recent studies employ the propensity score matching
method to control the conditions on potential confounds, which eliminates spurious results [34,45].
Introducing these statistical strategies enhances the estimation results considerably.
Lastly, one of the main ﬁndings of this study is that political capital is not immovable,
which reﬂects the positive and negative dynamics of political capital. The results reveal a series
of positive cascades of favorable treatment and a series of negative cascades of out-group exclusion.
However, the conditions under which these positive and negative connections are most advantageous
or harmful remain unclear, including the reasons for change in the direction of their effects. Speciﬁcally,
it remains to be determined if discriminatory treatment immediately increases after the opposition
gains power and if the positive connection between political and economic actors is stronger. Similarly,
it remains to be seen whether favorable treatment immediately increases after the opposition network
gains power if the negative connection between the actors is stronger. From the ﬁrm’s perspective,
an important question is whether only one-sided political ties to the government provide more beneﬁt
or whether multiple-deal connections more stably improve ﬁrm value over a long time horizon. It is
not possible to answer these questions with the current data. Eminently, Zhu and Chung [13] show
that a ﬁrm’s portfolio of political ties, including ruling and opposition parties, affects its performance,
which provides theoretical insight into a promising task using the concept of diversiﬁcation strategies.
This study has several limitations, which can be addressed in future extensional research. First,
this study investigates the contingent value of political connections for ﬁrms in South Korea, which is
a representative emerging economy. However, as Walder [28,29] mentions, because countries vary
widely in terms of the extent, order, speed, and phase of political and economic reform as time passes
in emerging and transitioning economies and even in developed economies [8,24,50], the determinants,
aspects, and consequences of political capital dynamics also have vast cross-national heterogeneity
depending on the institutional environment. Different types of political systems (i.e., multi-party or
single-party democracy, communism, military dictatorship, and so on), different economic structures
(i.e., planned, market, or mixed economies), and different strengths of regulatory constraints from
government policies may have complex effects on the contingent positive and negative values over
time. Thus, various types of favor exchanges and discrimination or exclusion may operate between
rival political and economic actors. These contradictory interactions may inﬂuence overall ﬁrm value
differently. Second, the current empirical estimation is not immune from the endogeneity problem.
One may address the potential endogeneity problem between corporate political ties and ﬁrm value
based on the recent remedy in Li [85]. Third, small ﬁrms are more likely to be connected to small rival
parities not in power and larger ﬁrms to be connected to large parties in power, and, thus, an alternative
measure for ﬁrm size could be considered [86]. Lastly, the study could have obtained better results
if it had considered the channels through which political ties affect ﬁrm outcomes. One important
channel could be corporate governance mechanisms such as the effect of board composition or market
competition. These limitations are left for future studies to address.
Author Contributions: C.Y.C. designed the research. J.H.B. performed research and analyzed the data. C.Y.C.,
S.J., and J.Y. wrote the paper. All authors read and approved the ﬁnal manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.

--- PAGE 22 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 22 of 25
Acknowledgments: We would like to thank the three reviewers for their helpful comments and suggestions.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Fisman, R. Estimating the value of political connections. Am. Econ. Rev. 2001, 91, 1095–1102. [CrossRef]
2. Khwaja, A.I.; Mian, A. Do lenders favor politically connected ﬁrms? Rent provision in an emerging ﬁnancial
market. Q. J. Econ. 2005, 120, 1371–1411. [CrossRef]
3. Faccio, M. Politically connected ﬁrms. Am. Econ. Rev. 2006, 91, 369–386. [CrossRef]
4. Claessens, S.; Feijen, E.; Laeven, L. Political connections and preferential access to ﬁnance: The role of
campaign contributions. J. Financ. Econ. 2008, 88, 554–580. [CrossRef]
5. Shleifer, A.; Vishny, R.W. Politicians and ﬁrms. Q. J. Econ. 1994, 109, 995–1025. [CrossRef]
6. Shleifer, A.; Vishny, R.W.The Grabbing Hand: Government Pathologies and Their Cures ; Harvard University
Press: Cambridge, MS, USA, 2002.
7. Hellman, J.S.; Jones, G.; Kaufmann, D. Seize the state, seize the day: State capture and inﬂuence in transition
economies. J. Comp. Econ. 2003, 31, 751–773. [CrossRef]
8. Bertrand, M.; Kramarz, F.; Schoar, A.; Thesmar, D. Politicians, Firms and the Political Business Cycle:
Evidence from France. Available online: http://www.crest.fr/ckfinder/userﬁles/files/Pageperso/kramarz
/politics_060207_v4.pdf (accessed on 17 January 2018).
9. Fan, J.P .; Wong, T.J.; Zhang, T. Politically connected CEOs, corporate governance, and post-IPO performance
of China’s newly partially privatized ﬁrms. J. Financ. Econ. 2007, 84, 330–357. [CrossRef]
10. Boubakri, N.; Cosset, J.; Saffar, W. Political connections of newly privatized ﬁrms.J. Corp. Financ. 2008, 14,
654–673. [CrossRef]
11. Shleifer, A.; Vishny, R.W. Corruption. Q. J. Econ. 1993, 108, 599–617. [CrossRef]
12. Agrawal, A.; Knoeber, C.R. Do some outside directors play a political role? J. Law Econ. 2001, 44, 179–198.
[CrossRef]
13. Zhu, H.; Chung, C. The Portfolio of Political Ties and Market Entries of Business Groups in Emerging
Economies: Evidence from Taiwan. Adm. Sci. Q. 2014, 59, 599–638. [CrossRef]
14. Imai, M. Mixing family business with politics in Thailand. Asian Econ. J. 2006, 20, 241–256. [CrossRef]
15. Burt, R.S. The contingent value of social capital. Adm. Sci. Q. 1997, 42, 339–365. [CrossRef]
16. Yeh, Y.; Shu, P .; Chiu, S. Political connections, corporate governance and preferential bank loans.Pac. Basin
Finan. J. 2013, 21, 1079–1101. [CrossRef]
17. Hillman, A.J.; Zardkoohi, A.; Bierman, L. Corporate political strategies and ﬁrm performance: Indications of
ﬁrm speciﬁc beneﬁts from personal service in the US government. Strat. Manag. J. 1999, 20, 67–81. [CrossRef]
18. Peng, M.W.; Luo, Y. Managerial ties and ﬁrm performance in a transition economy: The nature of a
micro-macro link. Acad. Manag. J. 2000, 43, 486–501.
19. Kroszner, R.S.; Stratmann, T. Interest-group competition and the organization of congress: Theory and
evidence from ﬁnancial services’ political action committees. Am. Econ. Rev. 1998, 1163–1187.
20. Smith, A. The Logic of Political Survival; MIT Press: Cambridge, MA, USA, 2005.
21. Bellettini, G.; Berti Ceroni, C.; Prarolo, G. Political Persistence, Connections and Economic
Growth. Available online: http://pseweb.eu/ydepot/semin/texte0809/BEL2009POL.pdf (accessed on
25 January 2018).
22. Leuz, C.; Oberholzer-Gee, F. Political relationships, global ﬁnancing, and corporate transparency:
Evidence from Indonesia. J. Financ. Econ. 2006, 81, 411–439. [CrossRef]
23. Goldman, E.; Rocholl, J.; So, J. Political Connections and the Allocation of Procurement Contracts.
Available online: http://idei.fr/sites/default/ﬁles/medias/doc/conf/icied/papers_2011/goldman.pdf
(accessed on 3 February 2018).
24. Goldman, E.; Rocholl, J.; So, J. Do politically connected boards affect ﬁrm value? Rev. Financ. Stud. 2009, 22,
2331–2360. [CrossRef]
25. Choi, J.P .; Thum, M. The economics of politically-connected ﬁrms.Int. Tax Pub. Financ. 2009, 16, 605–620.
[CrossRef]
26. Siegel, J. Contingent political capital and international alliances: Evidence from South Korea. Adm. Sci. Q.
2007, 52, 621–666. [CrossRef]

--- PAGE 23 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 23 of 25
27. Parish, W.L.; Michelson, E. Politics and markets: Dual transformations. Am. J. Sociol. 1996, 1042–1059.
[CrossRef]
28. Walder, A.G. Markets and inequality in transitional economies: Toward testable theories. Am. J. Sociol. 1996,
101, 1060–1073. [CrossRef]
29. Walder, A.G. Elite opportunity in transitional economies. Am. Sociol. Rev. 2003, 68, 899–916. [CrossRef]
30. Bunkanwanicha, P .; Wiwattanakantang, Y. Big business owners in politics. Rev. Financ. Stud. 2009, 22,
2133–2168. [CrossRef]
31. Stark, D. Recombinant property in east European capitalism. Am. J. Sociol. 1996, 101, 993–1027. [CrossRef]
32. Stark, D.; Bruszt, L. Postsocialist Pathways: Transforming Politics and Property in East Central Europe ;
Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK, 1998.
33. Whyte, M.K. Paradoxes of China’s economic boom. Ann. Rev. Sociol. 2009, 35, 371–392. [CrossRef]
34. Haveman, H.A.; Jia, N.; Shi, J.; Wang, Y. China’s economic transition and the value of ﬁrms’ political
connections: A longitudinal study of publicly listed ﬁrms. Available online: http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~{}y
ongxiaw/text%202013-06-20.pdf (accessed on 5 January 2018).
35. Boisot, M.; Child, J. From ﬁefs to clans and network capitalism: Explaining China’s emerging economic
order. Adm. Sci. Q. 1996, 600–628. [CrossRef]
36. Do, Q.; Lee, Y.; Nguyen, B.D.; Nguyen, K. Out of Sight, Out of Mind: The Value of Political Connections in
Social Networks. Available online: https://mercury.smu.edu.sg/rsrchpubupload/20710/22-2012_OutofSig
htOutofMindTheValueofPoliticalConnectionsinSocialNetworks.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2018).
37. Levine, M.E.; Florence, J.L. Regulatory capture, public interest, and the public agenda: Toward a synthesis.
J. Law Econ. Organ. 1990, 6, 167–198. [CrossRef]
38. Mantere, S.; Pajunen, K.; Lamberg, J.A. Vices and virtues of corporate political activity: The challenge of
international business. Bus. Soc. 2009, 48, 105–132. [CrossRef]
39. Knights, D.; Morgan, G. Corporate strategy, organizations and subjectivity: A critique. Organ. Stud. 1991, 12,
251–273. [CrossRef]
40. Lilley, S. The language of strategy. InThe Language of Organization; Westwood, R., Linstead, S., Eds.; Sage:
London, UK, 2001; pp. 66–88.
41. Li, F. Endogeneity in CEO power: A survey and experiment. Invest. Anal. J. 2016, 45, 149–162. [CrossRef]
42. Hu, F.; Leung, S. Appointment of Political Top Executives and Subsequent Performance and Corporate
Governance: Evidence from China’s Listed SOEs. Available online: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cf
m?abstract_id=1361617 (accessed on 17 February 2018).
43. Chang, E.C.; Wong, S.M. Corporate Governance, Political Interference, and Corporate Performance of China’s
Listed Companies. Available online: http://www.hiebs.hku.hk/public/working_papers/pdf/wp1037.pdf
(accessed on 12 March 2018).
44. Liu, Q.; Luo, W.; Xu, N. Political Motivation, Over-Investment and Firm Performance. Available online:
https://poseidon01.ssrn.com/delivery.php?ID=65300409409910607307702700600707809504901703108309
00350641000910960081231250910271210221020980311190630131020990800120000960710000200660870351
01014099019064029073047043021000081029094016121117093112121081112089105120126078017008085009
091116119113067&EXT=pdf (accessed on 3 February 2018).
45. Hellman, J.; Schankerman, M. Intervention, corruption and capture: The nexus between enterprises and the
state. Econ. Transit. 2000, 8, 545–576. [CrossRef]
46. Shen, C.; Wang, Y.; Lin, C. Do strong corporate governance ﬁrms still require political connection?Int. Rev.
Econ. Financ. 2015, 39, 107–120. [CrossRef]
47. Wong, S.H. Political connections and ﬁrm performance: The case of Hong Kong. J. East. Asian Stud. 2010, 10,
275–313. [CrossRef]
48. Ang, J.S.; Ding, D.K.; Thong, T.Y. Political Connection and Firm Value. Available online: https://ink.library.
smu.edu.sg/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=5438&context=lkcsb_research (accessed on 5 April 2018).
49. Niessen, A.; Ruenzi, S. Political connectedness and ﬁrm performance: Evidence from Germany.Ger. Econ. Rev.
2010, 11, 441–464. [CrossRef]
50. Qin, B. Political Connection and Government Patronage: Evidence from Chinese Manufacturing Firms.
Available online: https://www.hhs.se/contentassets/3f12530a0244444297c2eedca4602bb4/quin-paper.pdf
(accessed on 12 January 2018).

--- PAGE 24 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 24 of 25
51. Nee, V .; Opper, S. Political Connections in a Market Economy. Available online: https://pdfs.semanticschol
ar.org/0f42/d87910a34cd781ac158b59774fbc08c357fa.pdf (accessed on 5 March 2018).
52. Sheng, S.; Zhou, K.Z.; Li, J.J. The effects of business and political ties on ﬁrm performance: Evidence from
China. J. Mark. 2011, 75, 1–15. [CrossRef]
53. Johnson, S.; Mitton, T. Cronyism and capital controls: Evidence from Malaysia. J. Financ. Econ. 2003, 67,
351–382. [CrossRef]
54. Solinger, D.J. Urban entrepreneurs and the state: The merger of state and society. InState and Society in China;
Rosenbaum, A.L., Ed.; Westview: Boulder, CO, USA, 1992; pp. 121–142.
55. Sapienza, P . The effects of banking mergers on loan contracts. J. Financ. 2002, 57, 329–367. [CrossRef]
56. Ferguson, T.; Voth, H. Betting on Hitler—The value of political connections in Nazi Germany. Q. J. Econ.
2008, 123, 101–137. [CrossRef]
57. Imai, M.; Shelton, C.A. Elections and political risk: New evidence from the 2008 Taiwanese Presidential
Elections. J. Public Econ. 2011, 95, 837–849. [CrossRef]
58. Bandeira-de-Mello, R.; Marcon, R.; Burstein Goldszmidt, R.G.; Zambaldi, F. Firm performance effects of
nurturing political connections through campaign contributions. Afr. J. Bus. Manag. 2012, 6, 3327–3332.
[CrossRef]
59. Hung, M.; Wong, T.; Zhang, T. Political considerations in the decision of Chinese SOEs to list in Hong Kong.
J. Account. Econ. 2012, 53, 435–449. [CrossRef]
60. Jayachandran, S. The Jeffords effect. J. Law Econ. 2006, 49, 397–425. [CrossRef]
61. Liedong, T.A. Corporate Political Activity and Firm Performance—A Systematic Review. Available online:
http://dspace.lib.cranfield.ac.uk/handle/1826/8065 (accessed on 3 March 2018).
62. Stam, W.; Arzlanian, S.; Elfring, T. Social capital of entrepreneurs and small ﬁrm performance:
A meta-analysis of contextual and methodological moderators. J. Bus. Ventur. 2014, 29, 152–173. [CrossRef]
63. Biggart, N.W. Explaining Asian economic organization. Theory Soc. 1991, 20, 199–232. [CrossRef]
64. Orru, M.; Biggart, N.W.; Hamilton, G.G. Organizational Isomorphism in East Asia: Broadening the New
Institutionalism; Institute of Governmental Affairs: Oakland, CA, USA, 1991; pp. 361–389.
65. Biggart, N.W.; Hamilton, G.G. On the limits of a ﬁrm-based theory to explain business networks: The western
bias of neoclassical economics. In Networks and Organizations: Structure, Form and Action ; Nohria, N.,
Eccles, R., Eds.; Harvard Business School Press: Boston, MA, USA, 1992.
66. Kim, Y. Social Networks within Korea: With a Special Reference to Regional Ties. Available online:
http://web.yonsei.ac.kr/youngheart/profile1219.htm (accessed on 5 March 2018).
67. Tu, W. The rise of industrial east Asia: The role of Confucian values. Cph. J. Asian Stud. 2008, 4, 81–98.
68. Fukuyama, F. Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity; Free Press: New York, NY, USA, 1995.
69. Kim, N. Regionalism and Political Institutions in South Korea. Available online: https://lup.lub.lu.se/luur
/download?func=downloadFile&recordOId=1473798&ﬁleOId=1473812 (accessed on 8 April 2018).
70. Park, S.C. Regionalism in the South Korean context. Korea Publ. Adm. Rev. 2009, 0, 1–11.
71. Khaled, I. Pakistan and Lessons from East Asia: Growth, Equity, and Governance. Available online:
http://www.creb.org.pk/uploads/Khalid%20Ikram%20Policy%20Paper%2001-11%20Complete.pdf
(accessed on 15 March 2018).
72. Lee, S.J. Economic Voting and Regionalism in South Korea: A Statistical Analysis of the 2007 Presidential
Election. Available online: https://dukespace.lib.duke.edu/dspace/bitstream/handle/10161/3779/Lee_
duke_0066N_10841.pdf?sequence=1 (accessed on 16 February 2018).
73. Park, G.S.; Ki, K.P . Rethinking the state-business relations in Park’s era: Business on the center stage.Asia Res.
2010, 53, 126–225.
74. Lee, M.G. Scandal of political connection: 1 billion of lobbying for the election. Donga, 3 March 2018; H3.
75. Choi, H.S. Old School Ties—Boon or Bane? Available online: http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=
20140312001410 (accessed on 15 March 2018).
76. Kim, G.S. Korea disease: Collusion between government and ﬁrms. Segye, 4 April 2018; H12.
77. Kim, H.Y . The national police investigate the company’s political fund scandal.Presssian, 16 January 2018; H7.
78. Byun, H.J. Practical impossibility of political reform before 2007 presidential election. Upkorea,
3 February 2018; H13.
79. Choi, G.C. “Park Yun Cha Gate”: The result? Financial News, 15 January 2018; H5.

--- PAGE 25 ---
Sustainability 2019, 11, 327 25 of 25
80. Gu, G.H.; Ryu, J.I. The investigation towards former president Roh. Kyunghyang, 5 March 2018; H2.
81. Kim, C.H. “Jin Seung Hyun Gate” was not found guilty. Donga, 17 April 2018; H7.
82. Black, B.S.; Jang, H.; Kim, W. Does corporate governance predict ﬁrms’ market values? Evidence from Korea.
J. Law Econ. Org. 2008, 22, 366–413. [CrossRef]
83. Lee, S.G. The declaration for Lee Myung Bak from Hyundai. Hankook, 3 May 2018; H5.
84. Kim, T.G. BoHae scandals between Lim Gun Woo and Park Ji Yuan. Hankyoreh, 18 January 2018; H21.
85. Li, Z.F. Mutual monitoring and corporate governance. J. Bank. Financ. 2014, 45, 255–269.
86. Dang, C.; Li, Z.F.; Yang, C. Measuring ﬁrm size in empirical corporate ﬁnance. J. Bank. Financ. 2018, 86,
159–176. [CrossRef]
© 2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution
(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).